As we start this series, a church every community needs.
I wanna talk about the word church.
And I don't know if you've been in a conversation when the word church came up, but sometimes there can be a tension in the air or an awkwardness in the air.
And it happens for me because I talk about church even more often because every time I'm at a party or every time I'm at a wedding, what happens is somebody says to me, what do you do?
And I used to say, I'm a pastor, but now most people don't know what that means.
And so then I started to say, well, I'm a minister.
And then people said, well, how come you don't wear like a collar?
And so now I often say, I work at a church.
And it always comes up at the barbershop.
And I always wonder if they're going to like tighten that cape just a little bit more, right?
And you kind of get different responses when you talk about church.
The first is there's a small percentage of people who feel guilt.
They would say, oh, I used to go to church.
I went to church as a kid.
I haven't gone in a long time.
That's a small percentage of people.
A lot of people, when they hear the word church, they feel uncomfortable because they don't know a lot about it, or they're very skeptical about it.
They've either heard stereotypes of church, or they've seen something in a movie, and they're feeling, oh, I don't know a lot about this.
They know as much about church as some of you might know about attending a mosque,
or a Hindu temple or a Harry Krishna service.
They just, they don't really know what to say.
Or when some people hear church, there's like a curiosity, it's kind of like a curiosity about a club that you belong to.
Like, oh, I see some of them are like united and Baptist and are the Baptist not united?
They're separate.
No, no, it's like different.
Like what is the club?
And then they say like, I don't really belong to one.
They see it more as a club, some kind of religious club.
Now,
with that awkwardness and the tension, it's very, very different when the word Jesus comes up.
When you start talking about Jesus, it brings a curiosity in the air.
People will say, I like Jesus.
Like I like he was good to people.
He said to love people.
Like I like that.
I like that.
I'm interested in Jesus.
But did he really die in a cross?
Did he really rise again?
Or I've read some of the Bible before.
I've read about Jesus.
Or I have a friend
who found Jesus and their life is kind of being changed.
And there's a curiosity, there's a warmth around Jesus when his name comes up.
We all know people who are curious about Jesus, but they're a little uncertain about church.
Now, why are people a little uncertain about church?
Let me tell you one of the reasons, because they've been to one.
And their experience at church was not a good one.
And maybe that's you today, maybe you've arrived here and you've had past experiences that weren't good.
that it's a club, it's a clique, they weren't welcome in any way, or somebody shared a message from the front, and it was in English, but you couldn't really understand it.
They were saying stuff from the front, but they didn't really understand what they were saying, or they came and they said, well it was great, but it was like a two and a half hour service, and they sang a whole bunch of songs, I don't know any of the words too, and I was completely lost,
or I didn't feel welcome or it had a moldy basement or whatever it might be.
And they've had a poor experience in church.
The other reason why people sometimes are awkward about church is because they've never been to one.
So they think they wouldn't be welcome at one.
Why would I be welcome at a church?
Would they even have me?
I don't have like a club card to get in.
Like would I even be allowed to come to the church and would anybody even accept me there?
But here's why we have to have this conversation about Jesus and about church, because you can't separate Jesus from the church.
And here's why.
He started the movement.
Jesus started the movement of the church.
To Jesus, the local church is his movement around the world.
And that's what's amazing to me, that globally today, that all around the world, even in countries where they're persecuting Christians,
People are gathering together in different ways, just like we're gathering to talk about God, to sing about God, to pray together.
And it's a movement that's spreading all around the world.
And I've preached in churches that meet in prisons.
I've preached in ones that meet in shacks in the Caribbean.
I've preached in some that met in community centers.
I've even preached in a church that met in a movie theater.
If you can imagine a church that would do that.
For no matter where you go in the globe, the movement of the church is on the move.
And I was in the lobby here this past week, and I'm just reminded of how amazing it is.
Let me just give you one example.
I'm standing there, and in one glimpse, what happens?
I meet somebody who's 17, who says to me, I'm here, and I'm reading the Bible, and I'm asking questions, and I'm trying to discover who Jesus is.
And then I meet a guy who's 75,
And he says, I'm here, I'm reading the Bible, I got questions about faith, I'm trying to discover who Jesus is.
Both all the generations are together.
There are very few places in our world where all the generations come together at the same time.
Another thing I love about the local church is the fact that there are people walking with the next generation at all ages and stages.
Not just when they're teenagers, not just when they're middle schoolers, but all the way through.
from preschool and infancy all the way to adulthood.
We've been the benefit of that.
I have two sons.
And when we started this church, they were the only two kids in preschool at the early service.
And they have had Gayle walk with them and Michael walk with them and Tyler walk with them and Emily walk with them, names of people that we know that have walked with them from the day that they were born all the way up through life.
What other place does that?
walks with an entire group of kids, entire family through all the generations.
And then you've got the opportunity of spaces like Alpha for people to bring their questions and no question is off the table.
And then at the same time, I was in a meeting this week where we're talking about how we could get behind the food bank and what we could do with local shelters and how we could help feed people.
I mean, the local church as the movement of Jesus is a mutual fund of goodness.
And it's an incredible thing to see.
Only God could come up with something like this.
And you can actually see when Jesus starts the movement.
He's with Peter and they're having a conversation.
And he says to Peter, who do you say I am Peter?
And he says, well, you're the Messiah.
You're the Son of God.
You're the chosen one.
And then this is what Jesus says.
You did not learn this from any human being.
This is a revelation to you.
And now I say to you that you are Peter, which means
Rock, and upon this rock, I will build my church.
He doesn't mean Peter.
He means this idea of profession of faith and who Jesus is and that you are the Messiah.
Seeing people who have this revealed to them and confess it.
I'm gonna build my church on this and all the powers of hell will not conquer it.
And the actual word he uses here for churches, ecclesia, which is like a gathering with a purpose.
It's a group of people who are gathered with the purpose.
And there are all kinds of metaphors in the Bible that are used to describe the church.
One of them is that the church is the bride of Christ.
Jesus is like the groom, and we're like the bride, and he gives his life for us, and he lays down his life for us.
But another metaphor that's used probably the most often and used a lot by Paul is the body.
He says, we are the body of Christ.
That when we gather together,
We make up the body and he is the head.
And so we all play a different part, right?
Some people are the hand and some people are foot and some people are the arm and some people are the armpit, right?
Who are the armpits here today?
But we all have a different role to play.
We all have a different part to play.
And when we come together, we are the representation of Christ.
You can't love Jesus without loving the church.
You know that?
That is clear that the church is his bride.
And the church is his plan A.
To Jesus, the church is his plan A for the planet.
And to Jesus, the church is his plan A for Simcoe County.
And that we are the representation of Jesus as we come together, as we gather together, as we're on mission together.
That's why he calls us the body of Christ.
So as the body of Christ, what should we look like?
What should we look like as a church?
Who should we be to our
community.
See, a church worth finding looks like the Jesus who found you.
If you've been found by Jesus, a church worth finding looks like Jesus.
We are the representation of Jesus.
That's what we look like.
And the honest truth is the church hasn't always gotten this right.
That when you look back in the overall history of the church, sometimes the church has done this well and look like Jesus.
And sometimes the church has done a lot of damage and a lot of harm.
There's a book called Bullies and Saints by a guy named John Dixon, and it's all about the history of the church.
And he looks at the overarching history, and he says this.
He says, Christ wrote a beautiful tune.
He had a great design for the church, a beautiful piece of music, which the church has often performed well and often badly.
But the melody was never completely drowned out, and sometimes, sometimes it became a symphony.
then when we look at how scripture has designed the movement of the church, and we look at what it means for us to look like the Jesus we represent, there's nothing like it.
And it's his plan A for the globe, and it's his plan A for Simcoe County.
And so if people are skeptical about church, or curious about church, or wondering about church,
How can our church actually look more like Jesus if we represent Him as we gather and as we go about our lives?
That's what this series is about.
And what we're going to do is we're going to look at four aspects of Jesus.
We're going to look at the personality of Jesus.
That's today.
We're going to look at the posture of Jesus.
We're going to look at the purpose of Jesus.
And we're going to look how we can have access
to the power of Jesus.
And as we do that, as a church, we can be a church that our community needs as we look like him.
And so today, I wanna look at the personality of Jesus.
Now, personality, if somebody said, what's your personality, it's how you consistently show up in people's lives.
So if somebody said, hey, what's his personality?
And I say, he's funny, that's because every time I hang out with that guy, he's funny.
If I say his personality is he's boring,
Every time I've hung out with that guy, he's often boring.
It's how you consistently show up in someone's life.
So how did Jesus consistently show up in people's lives?
What was his personality?
And that's what I want to look at for the rest of our time today.
And there's an account in the Gospel of Luke where you really see the personality of Jesus shining through how he showed up for people.
He is with a group of Pharisees who are religious leaders and they say, hey,
We know how to live.
We know the rules.
We know how religion is supposed to be handled.
And Jesus is blowing their minds.
Because Jesus is hanging out with all the people he shouldn't.
He's hanging out with tax collectors.
And tax collectors, then we're bad.
If you're a tax collector today, it's different, right?
But tax collectors, prostitutes, people who were known to be of quote unquote ill repute.
And they don't mind if Jesus teaches them.
That's fine, Jesus, if you want to teach them, because you know what?
They need to be taught.
But what he's doing is he's hanging out with them.
He's having dinner with them.
He's inviting them over.
And the Pharisees are like, you cannot do this.
These people don't belong in our temple.
They don't belong in our religion.
They don't belong in our circle.
And I don't want you.
You shouldn't be spending any time with them.
What happens is Jesus starts telling these stories that illustrate
his personality and how he feels about the circumstance.
And I want to share with you one of them that's one of the cornerstones of what this church was built on.
It says this, to illustrate the point further, Jesus told them this story.
A man had two sons and a younger son told his father, I want my share of your estate now before you die.
I want my inheritance now.
I know you're not dead.
I wish you were.
Can I have the cash?
Right?
And the Pharisees are already like, who is this jerk?
So his father agreed to defy this wealth between his sons.
And a few days later, this younger son packed all his belongings and moved to a distant land.
Now, if you just move your kid away to school, this is triggering for you.
I'm sorry, but it's not about that.
Packed all his belongings and moved to a distant land.
And there he wasted all his money in wild living.
And the Pharisees are like, who is this kid?
Who treats their dad like this?
This is about the time his money ran out, a great famine swept over the land, and he began to starve, and the Pharisees are like, serves him right.
And he persuaded a local farmer to hire him, and the man sent him into the fields to feed the pigs.
So as a Jewish young man, now he's interacting with pork, which is terrible, and the Pharisees are like, this guy deserves it.
It says, a young man became so hungry that even the pods he was feeding the pigs looked good to him,
but no one gave him anything and the Pharisees are like, that's right.
No one should give him anything.
And when he finally came to his senses, he said to himself, at home, even the hired servants, they have food enough to spare.
Here I am dying of hunger.
I'm gonna go home to my father.
I will go home to my father and say, Father, I've sinned against both heaven and you.
I'm no longer worthy to be called your son.
Please take me on as a hired servant.
I'm gonna go back to my dad and say, listen,
I'm going to learn a trade.
I know I'm not allowed in the house.
I know I'm not back in the family.
Let me like work in the stable or be us blacksmith or something."
So we returned home to his father.
And this is this.
And while he was still a long way off, his father saw him coming and the Pharisees are like, good.
Now his dad is going to tell him, I told you so.
And then Jesus says, and filled with love and compassion, he ran to his son, and he embraced him, and he kissed him.
And the Pharisees are like, what now?
He did what?
This moment shows so clearly the personality of Jesus.
that God's heart beats fast for those who are far from Him.
And He runs towards their mess.
And if you are here today and you think, man, my life is a mess, that's why I showed up here, I want you to know that Jesus has already been running towards you.
It's what I love about our church.
If you're here today and you're like, man, I barely got here.
I am so hungover from last night.
I want you to know you're not the only one.
If you're here today and you're saying, man, I've got a secret sin.
And if anybody found out and it's so heavy, you're not the only one.
And if you're here and you say, man, I've made a lot of mistakes.
I've messed up my marriage.
I've messed up relationships.
I've messed up parenting.
You're not the only one.
And Jesus says, I run towards your mess and my heart beats for you.
I'm running toward you, not away from you.
And it says, his son said to him, you can hear the son, he's got his speech prepared.
Father, I have sinned against both heaven and you, and I'm no longer worthy of being called your son.
And what's so interesting to me
is what makes this confession so much easier is he already knows the Father loves him.
It's not like he confesses his sin and the Father says, okay, you're sorry, I love you now.
No, no, the Father loved him even before he confessed.
Confession doesn't earn God's love.
It's in response to God's love.
He says, man, you've loved me so much.
Of course I wanna confess my sin to you.
You love me so much.
Of course I want to lay this before you.
Of course I want to be honest with you.
Of course I want to be forgiven.
It's just but his father said to his servants, quick, bring the finest robe in the house and put it on him and get a ring for his finger.
It's and get sandals for his feet and kill the calf because we're going to have the most amazing barbecue.
So he says, kill the calf we've been fattening.
We must celebrate with the feast for this son of mine was dead.
And he's now returned to life, he was lost, and now he is found, and so the party began.
He doesn't just run towards him.
I mean, just think about it.
You know he had to be out there watching for him already, looking for him already, seeing him already.
If you would say, I'm like this brother, and I'm broken, and I'm messed up, I want you to know, before you even got where you are today, God saw you, and he sees you, and he ran towards him.
And he welcomes him home and he restores him to the family.
And then he throws a party for him.
See, this is the thing.
This personality of Jesus shows us that the church isn't a club for the found, it's a search party for the lost.
And I love it that I was here last week hanging out in the lobby and the last few weeks been praying for people.
And when people come and they just
They say, I'm a mess.
I did this, and I did that, and I'm broken.
And you know what?
They're just like, I just need prayer.
I need to know who God is.
I'm desperate for God.
I'm desperate to figure this out.
Will you give me a Bible?
I love that about our church.
I love that we have space for that.
I love that this place is for them.
I love that I can say to them.
They say, man, I'm so messed up, and I've got so many questions.
And I can say to them, oh, that's really great because we built this church for you.
But you're not the only one.
That there are lots of us who are trying to figure all of this out.
There's a guy named William Temple.
He was the Archbishop of Canterbury in the mid 40s.
And he has this quote.
He says, the church is the only society that exists for the benefit of those who are not its members.
And we can get so caught up, can't we?
and saying, well, yeah, I know that's true, but like, how come they don't do this song more?
Or how come they don't have more Bible study?
Or how come they don't have more of this?
And how come the church doesn't have more of that?
And you know why that is?
Because it's not always about you.
The personality of Jesus is one who is broken, broken, and running towards the mess.
and wrapping his arms around people and loving them in their brokenness in a place that they can be real and honest and confess and receive forgiveness because of his death on their cross and because of his resurrection.
He didn't just run towards us.
He died for us.
And we want to be the kind of church, man, our gift to our community is to be a church that says, man, we want to wrap our arms around the mess.
And people say, I'm not really sure about Jesus.
Great.
Come on in.
I got a lot of questions.
I got a lot to think through.
I got a lot.
That's great.
We want to be the kind of church that welcomes the younger brother.
But there's another brother.
And the Pharisees already, like their jaws are on the ground.
Like, you what?
He what?
He welcomed him.
He didn't tell him I told you so.
And then,
Jesus pivots the story.
And he says, oh, yeah, by the way, there's another brother.
And he says, meanwhile, the older brother was in the fields working.
And when he returned home, he heard music and dancing in the house, right?
Here's that Tiesto in the house, right?
He's like, that's my song, that's my song.
What's going on?
And it says, and he asks the servants, what's going on?
And they say,
Great news, man.
Your brother is back.
He was told.
And your father has killed the fat and calf.
It's like a dance and prime rib.
And we're celebrating because of his safe return.
We want to be that kind of church that celebrates when people come and discover Jesus.
I mean, when they come in the door, we're not going to kill a calf and put them in the robe.
That's weird.
That's why people don't go to church.
Weird stuff like that.
But we're going to celebrate
Your brother is back.
And it said the older brother was angry and he wouldn't go in.
And his father came out and he begged him.
I want you to notice this.
The father runs out of the house to both sons.
He goes down the road to the younger son and he goes out to the field to the older son and he begged him.
Come inside.
Join the family.
But he replied, Dad, all these years, Dad, I've slave for you.
I never once refused to do a single thing you told me to.
And in that time, you never gave me even one young goat for a feast with my friends.
Look at all that I've done for you.
I've been faithful.
I've been showing up to church.
doing the right things, living the right life, yet when catch this, yet when this son of yours, not my brother, this son of yours comes back after squandering your money on prostitutes.
You celebrate by killing the fat and calf.
Dad, I've been
I've been doing my duty.
I've been doing it right.
I've been living the right life, making the right choices, doing all the right things.
And you do what?
And his father said to him, look, dear son, you've always stayed by me.
And everything I have is yours.
One of the things that he's inherited, of course, is he's going to have to take care of his younger brother probably for the rest of his life.
This is going to cost him.
What's interesting in this story is there are two lost brothers, aren't there?
One brother lost in his rebellion, and one brother lost in the sin of self-righteousness.
There's a book called Prodigal God by Tim Keller.
It's a great book, and if I were to sum it up for you, one of the big points in the book is this.
The younger brother was lost in his own badness, if you want to use that term.
and the elder brother was lost in his own goodness.
But both of them needed to father's love and grace the same.
I think for all of us, if you call yourself a follower of Jesus today, we can have a lot of symptoms of older brotherliness in our lives.
What does that look like?
It can be superiority.
You see someone who found Jesus, they lived a life and they made a whole mess and they found Jesus and you see their baptism video and you say, oh man, that's great for them.
Man, they really needed Jesus.
I'm really glad for them, they discovered God.
But you know, it's been a number of years now and I got my walk of God together.
Oh, that's for those people, but for me, I've kind of got it together.
I kind of know how this all works.
Or a sense of duty.
I come to church every week and I bring my kids with me and I serve every week.
Look at all the stuff I'm doing.
I'm doing the duty.
God owes me.
I've done enough now that God owes me.
I've got it together.
There's a story about
a guy who goes to a king and brings him a giant carrot.
And I know you're like, where is this going?
But stay with me.
He brings a giant carrot to the king.
And the king says to him, wow, you grew an amazing carrot.
He says, I've got some land next to yours.
I'm going to give it to you to grow a garden.
Well, there's a guy standing there watching.
He's like, wow, the king did that for a carrot.
And the next day he shows up to the king and says, king, look, I brought you a stallion.
And the king takes the stallion and gives him nothing.
He's like, hey, you gave that guy a whole piece of land for a carrot.
What are you gonna give me for a stallion?
He says, you didn't give me the stallion.
You gave yourself the stallion.
You just gave it to me hoping I would give you something back.
And I think a lot of us live our faith lives that way.
A lot of you do.
You think God owes you.
because of your duty.
I do the right things.
I go through the right motions.
I come on Sunday.
I read the Bible.
I'm sure God's keeping score and he owes me.
He's good with me.
Or for some of us, it's passivity.
There's a passiveness to your faith.
That you come on a Sunday and you would say, I've followed Jesus for 30 years.
And I see you standing there with your arms folded during worship, with your coffee cup in your hand, with your mouth closed, passive, doing my duty, checking my chat box.
That's older brotherliness.
I've got it together.
There's an exclusiveness to it.
There's a judgmentalness to it.
There's an element of I'm trying to control God with my behavior
And under all of that sometimes is a real insecurity.
I need to make sure that I've got a checklist and I'm following that because that makes me feel like I'm good with God.
It's older brotherliness.
And at the end of Luke 15, it says this next, we had to celebrate this happy day.
The father says, for your brother was dead and has come back to life.
He was lost.
But now he is found.
And that's the end of the story.
The older brother doesn't come back in the house.
The older brother doesn't return to the family.
The other brother stays lost.
That's what happens.
I was here a few Sundays ago, and there was
A young woman here who I watched in a service just over the corner of my eye.
And she was just worshiping God with all her heart.
And after words, I was talking to her and she said, a year ago I came here and I found Jesus at Alpha.
And I want you to pray.
that I would know more of the love of God in my life because I want more of it.
And I think the thing that breaks my heart is there, some of you who have been Christians for five years, 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, and it's been a long time since you felt like that.
Maybe ever.
that you're lost.
And you don't think you're lost because you've got your checklist and you come to church on Sunday and you serve and you read your Bible and you go, I'm not lost, I know what I'm doing.
Do you though?
Do you know the love of the Father in a real way?
Do you know the love of a Father in a spiritual, supernatural way?
And I think particularly,
Guys, if this is you, particularly if you are a guy in this crowd and you feel that way, I have been praying for you all week.
All week.
I'm not asking you if you know whether Jesus died on the cross and rose again and God created the world and the Bible and all.
I'm not asking you if you know it's true.
I'm asking you if it's real to you.
If you've got kids, I'll tell you a little secret about walking with your kids spiritually.
When they're young, they want to know, they want you to tell them it's true.
When they're older, they're watching to see if it's real to you.
Is it?
The reason my heart breaks for you is because the Father wants you to know His love, both brothers, the same.
And you haven't known it for so long.
And I know for some of you, in particular, guys, there's an element of life now.
You know, my dad didn't show emotion
I don't show emotion and I grew up whatever ethnicity you want to use as your excuse.
When we say the church, the church isn't a club for the found.
It's a search party for the lost.
You're the lost too.
You're lost.
You know a lot.
about Jesus, but you don't know the love of the Father.
And I am begging you.
I am begging you to open your heart just to crack.
That the Holy Spirit might fill you and change you.
That's something that's true to you, become something that's real to you.
I know you're hearing my voice and you're like, I don't know.
I'm having feelings.
I know.
I don't know what to do with this.
But would you be brave for your, for your own life, for your family, for your friends?
Would you be brave enough to say, I'm gonna, I'm gonna go inside.
I'm not gonna stay in the field anymore.
Like what if the story had ended that way?
Where both brothers had a party together with their dad.
Because both of them had been found.
And both of them were embraced by his love.
He wants that for you.
And so,
ready today.
It's been a weepy week.
It's one second.
If you're here and you're like, these tears just about this, yes, yes, this isn't anything else.
If you
are coming back to Jesus.
If you're coming to Jesus today and you're the rebellious son and you're running back and you're saying, man, I've made a lot of messes.
I've got addictions.
I mess with my family.
I mess with my job, whatever it is.
I'm telling you, the father embraces you like the younger son and he already sees you and he's already running towards you.
He's just waiting for you to run towards him.
And as I pray today, if you want to choose to run back to Jesus,
I encourage you to pray with me today and put your hand out on your lap as I pray.
And if you're here today and you are the older brother, and I know some of you, some of you guys are already like, if he tells me to put my hand out on my lap, like I am not doing that, have courage enough.
What if my wife sees good?
Good.
have courage enough to say, God, I'm open in my heart of crack, to know the Father's love, that I might know that what I know is true is here, that I might go on a journey to discover that it's real here.
Because you've been a Christian for a long time, but there are people here who've been Christians for less than a year, and they know more about that than you.
Believe that.
but it doesn't mean it isn't for you.
It totally is.
The Father sees you and he loves you and he says, come in from the field and let me wrap my arms around you and let's celebrate together.
So if you wanna put your hand out on your lap while I pray, I'm gonna get people to close their eyes.
It's gonna be fine.
Just close our eyes and you can pray with me.
Maybe for you, you're the younger brother, you're saying, God, I'm running back to you.
I've made a mess.
I'm done wandering around, making a mess, trying to just make more messes, trying to figure out life.
And I run towards you.
And I ask your forgiveness.
And I confess to you, my sin.
And I come to you for repentance.
knowing that you wrap your arms around me and I'm responding to that love with repentance and confession.
And if you're here and you're the older brother, God, I pray that as I open my heart a crack that you would fill me with the power of your spirit, that I might know your love in a real way.
God, I give you permission to keep prime this crack open, that I might know the love of a father that never fails.
God, I confess to you of my older brotherliness.
And I want you to wrap your arms around me too.
I want to know your love in a real way.
Not something that's true, but also something that's real for me.
And I pray this in your name.